<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title></title>
<link href="../Styles/Style.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>
<h1>參考文獻</h1>
<p><br/></p>
<p class="noindent">僅列出近年以日文或英文發行的主要書籍。</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>掌握鄂圖曼帝國通史及全貌</h4>
<p class="ref1">．永田雄二編『西アジア史II イラン．トルコ』（新版世界各国史9）山川出版社 2002</p>
<p class="ref1">．永田雄三．羽田正『成熟のイスラーム社会』（世界の歴史15）中公文庫 2008</p>
<p class="ref1">．鈴木董『オスマン帝国─イスラム世界の「柔らかい専制」』講談社現代新書 1992</p>
<p class="ref1">．新井政美『オスマンvs.ヨーロッパ─〈トルコの脅威〉とは何だったのか』講談社選書メチエ237 2002</p>
<p class="ref1">．林佳世子『オスマン帝国の時代』（世界史リブレット19）山川出版社 1997</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>涉及鄂圖曼帝國的特色及文化各個面向、特定時代</h4>
<p class="ref1">．アンドレ．クロー『スレイマン大帝とその時代』濱田正美譯 法政大学出版局 1992</p>
<p class="ref1">．鈴木董『図説　イスタンブル歴史散歩』河出書房新社 1993</p>
<p class="ref1">．鈴木董編『オスマン帝国史の諸相』山川出版社 2012</p>
<p class="ref1">．永田雄三．江川ひかり『世紀末イスタンブルの演劇空間─都市社会史の視点から』白帝社 2015</p>
<p class="ref1">．野中恵子『世界遺産 イスタンブール歴史の旅』小学館 2002</p>
<p class="ref1">．テレーズ．ビタール『オスマン帝国の栄光」（「知の再発見」双書51）鈴木董監製、富樫櫻子譯 創元社 1995</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於鄂圖曼帝國以前的安那托利亞及巴爾幹</h4>
<p class="ref1">．根津由喜夫『ビザンツ─幻影の世界帝国』講談社選書メチエ154 1999</p>
<p class="ref1">．ジョナサン．ハリス『ビザンツ帝国の最期』井上浩一譯 白水社 2013</p>
<p class="ref1">．S. Vryonis, Jr., <em>The Decline of Medieval Hellenism in Asia Minor and the Process of Islamization from the Eleventh through the Fifteenth Century</em>, Univ. of California Press, 1971.</p>
<p class="ref1">．M. Hendy, <em>Studies in the Byzantine Monetary Economy c. 300 - 1450</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1985.</p>
<p class="ref1">．D. M. Nicol, <em>The Last Centuries of Byzantium, 1261-1453</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1993 (2nd ed.).</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於鄂圖曼帝國的巴爾幹地區</h4>
<p class="ref1">．柴宜弘編『バルカン史』（新版世界各国史18）山川出版社 1998</p>
<p class="ref1">．井上浩一．栗生沢猛夫『ビザンツとスラヴ』（世界の歴史11）中央公論社 1998</p>
<p class="ref1">．河野淳『ハプスブルクとオスマン帝国─歴史を変えた〈政治〉の発明』講談社選書メチエ471 2010</p>
<p class="ref1">．佐原徹哉『近代バルカン都市社会史─多元主義空間における宗教とエスニシティ』刀水書房 2003</p>
<p class="ref1">．B. McGowan, <em>Economic Life in Ottoman Europe</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1981.</p>
<p class="ref1">．F. Adanir &amp; S. Faroqhi eds., <em>The Ottomans and the Balkans: A Discussion of Historiography</em>, Brill, 2002.</p>
<p class="ref1">．A. Minkov, <em>Conversion to Islam in the Balkans: Kisve Bahası Petitions and Ottoman Social Life, 1670-1730</em>, Brill, 2004.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於鄂圖曼帝國的阿拉伯地區</h4>
<p class="ref1">．佐藤次高編『西アジア史I アラブ』（新版世界各国史8）山川出版社 2002</p>
<p class="ref1">．M. W. Daly ed., <em>Modern Egypt, from 1517 to the End of the Twentieth Century</em> (The Cambridge History of Egypt Vol. 2), Cambridge Univ. Press, 1998.</p>
<p class="ref1">．J. Hathaway, <em>The Politics of Households in Ottoman Egypt: The Rise of the Qazdağlıs</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1997.</p>
<p class="ref1">．J. Hathaway, <em>The Arab Lands under Ottoman Rule, 1516-1800</em>, Pearson Longman, 2008.</p>
<p class="ref1">．D. R. Khoury, <em>State and Provincial Society in the Ottoman Empire: Mosul, 1540-1834</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1997.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>鄂圖曼帝國史的研究入門書籍及通史專業書籍</h4>
<p class="ref1">．C. Finkel, <em>Osman’s Dream: The Story of the Ottoman Empire, 1300-1923</em>, J. Murray, 2005.</p>
<p class="ref1">．C. Imber, <em>The Ottoman Empire, 1300-1650: The Structure of Power</em>, Palgrave Macmillan, 2002.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Ş. Pamuk, <em>A Monetary History of the Ottoman Empire</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 2000.</p>
<p class="ref1">．S. Faroqhi, <em>Approaching Ottoman History: An Introduction to the Sources</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1999.</p>
<p class="ref1">．D. Quataert, <em>The Ottoman Empire, 1700-1922</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 2002.</p>
<p class="ref1">．B. Tezcan, <em>The Second Ottoman Empire: Political and Social Transformation in the Early Modern World</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 2010.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於鄂圖曼國家早期歷史</h4>
<p class="ref1">．小笠原弘幸『イスラーム世界における王朝起源論の生成と変容─古典期オスマン帝国の系譜伝承をめぐって』刀水書房 2014</p>
<p class="ref1">．C. Imber, <em>The Ottoman Empire, 1300-1481</em>, Isis, 1990.</p>
<p class="ref1">．C. Kafadar, <em>Between Two Worlds: The Construction of the Ottoman State</em>, Univ. of California Press, 1995. </p>
<p class="ref1">．H. Lowry, <em>The Nature of the Early Ottoman State</em>, State Univ. of New York Press, 2003.</p>
<p class="ref1">．R. P. Lindner, <em>Explorations in Ottoman Prehistory</em>, Univ. of Michigan Press, 2007.</p>
<p class="ref1">．E. A. Zachariadou ed., <em>The Via Egnatia under Ottoman Rule (1380-1699)</em>, Crete Univ. Press, 1996.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於15、16世紀前期鄂圖曼帝國整體面向</h4>
<p class="ref1">．H. Inalcık, <em>The Ottoman Empire, The Classical Age</em>, Praeger Publishers, 1973.</p>
<p class="ref1">．H. Inalcık &amp; D. Quataert ed., <em>An Economic and Social History of the Ottoman Empire</em>, Vol. 1: 1300-1600, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1997 (first published in 1994).</p>
<p class="ref1">．H. Inalcık &amp; C. Kafadar eds., <em>Süleyman the Second and his Time</em>, Isis, 1993.</p>
<p class="ref1">．M. Greene, <em>A Shared World: Christians and Muslims in the Early Modern Mediterranean</em>, Princeton Univ. Press, 2000. </p>
<p class="ref1">．G. Necipoğlu, <em>Architecture, Ceremonial and Power: The Topkapi Palace in the Fifteenth and Sixteenth Centuries</em>, Architectural History Foundation (New York), 1991.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於17、18世紀後期鄂圖曼帝國整體面向</h4>
<p class="ref1">．鈴木董『オスマン帝国の権力とエリート』東京大学出版社 1993</p>
<p class="ref1">．S. Faroqhi ed., <em>The Later Ottoman Empire, 1603-1839</em>, (The Cambridge History of Turkey, Vol. 3) Cambridge Univ. Press, 2006.</p>
<p class="ref1">．H. Inalcık &amp; D. Quataert ed., <em>An Economic and Social History of the Ottoman Empire</em>, Vol. 2: 1600-1914. Cambridge Univ. Press, 1997 (first published in 1994).</p>
<p class="ref1">．V. H. Aksan &amp; D. Goffman eds., <em>The Early Modern Ottomans: Remapping the Empire</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 2007.</p>
<p class="ref1">．B. Tezcan &amp; K. K. Barbir eds., <em>Identity and Identity Formation in the Ottoman World</em>, The Univ. of Wisconsin Press, 2007.</p>
<p class="ref1">．D. Sajdi ed., <em>Ottoman Tulips, Ottoman Coffee: Leisure and Lifestyle in the Eighteenth Century</em>, I. B. Tauris, 2007.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>涉及後期鄂圖曼帝國統治階層之研究</h4>
<p class="ref1">．永田雄三『前近代トルコの地方名士─カラオスマンオウル家の研究』刀水書房 2009</p>
<p class="ref1">．C. H. Fleischer, <em>Bureaucrat and Intellectual in the Ottoman Empire: The Historian Mustafa Ali (1541-1600)</em>, Princeton Univ. Press, 1986.</p>
<p class="ref1">．I. M. Kunt, <em>The Sultan’s Servants: The Transformation of Ottoman Provincial Government, 1550-1650</em>, Columbia Univ. Press, 1983. </p>
<p class="ref1">．Rifa'at Abou El-Haj, <em>Formation of the Modern State: The Ottoman Empire, Sixteenth to Eighteenth Centuries</em>, State Univ. of New York Press, 1991.</p>
<p class="ref1">．G. Piterberg, <em>An Ottoman Tragedy : History and Historiography at Play</em>, Univ. of California Press, 2003.</p>
<p class="ref1">．M. C. Zilfi, <em>The Politics of Piety: The Ottoman Ulema in the Postclassical Age (1600-1800)</em>, Bibliotheca Islamica, Minneapolis, 1988.</p>
<p class="ref1">．C. Findley, <em>Bureaucratic Reform in the Ottoman Empire: The Sublime Porte, 1789-1922</em>, Princeton Univ. Press, 1980.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於稅制及其所造成的社會變遷</h4>
<p class="ref1">．L. T. Darling, <em>Revenue-Raising and Legitimacy, Tax Collection and Finance Administration in the Ottoman Empire, 1560-1660</em>, Brill, 1996</p>
<p class="ref1">．A. Salzmann, <em>Tocqueville in the Ottoman Empire: Rival Paths to the Modern State</em>, Brill, 2003.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於軍事體制</h4>
<p class="ref1">．R. Murphy, <em>Ottoman Warfare, 1500-1700</em>, Rutgers Univ. Press, 1999.</p>
<p class="ref1">．V. H. Aksan, <em>Ottoman Wars 1700-1870</em>, Pearson Longman, 2007.</p>
<p class="ref1">．G. Ágoston, <em>Guns for the Sultan: Military Power and the Weapons Industry in the Ottoman Empire</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 2005. </p>
<p class="ref1">．M. L. Stein, <em>Guarding the Frontier: Ottoman Border Forts and Garrisons in Europe</em>, I. B. Tauris, 2007</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於文化及社會結構</h4>
<p class="ref1">．坂本勉『イスタンブル交易圈とイラン─世界経済における近代中東の交易ネットワーク』慶應義塾大学出版会 2015</p>
<p class="ref1">．澤井一彰「オスマン朝の食糧危機と穀物供給─16世紀後半の東地中海世界」山川出版社 2015</p>
<p class="ref1">．W. G. Andrews and M. Kalpakli, <em>The Age of Beloveds, Love and the Beloved in Early-Modern Ottoman and European Culture and Society</em>, Duke Univ. Press, 2005.</p>
<p class="ref1">．W. G. Andrews, N. Black &amp; M. Kalpaklı ed. and tr., <em>Ottoman Lyric Poetry: An Anthology</em>, Univ. of Texas Press, 1997.</p>
<p class="ref1">．S. Faroqhi, <em>The Ottoman Empire and the World Around It</em>, I. B. Tauris, 2004.</p>
<p class="ref1">．S. Faroghi, <em>Subjects of the Sultan: Culture and Daily Life in the Ottoman Empire</em>, I. B. Tauris, 2000.</p>
<p class="ref1">．R. Dankoff, <em>An Ottoman Mentality: The World of Evliya Çelebi</em>, Brill, 2004.</p>
<p class="ref1">．E. Yi, <em>Guild Dynamics in Seventeenth-Century Istanbul: Fluidity and Leverage</em>, Brill, 2004.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Y. Nagata, <em>Tarihte Ayânlar: Karaosmanoğulları üzerinde bir Inceleme</em>, Türk Tarih Kurumu, 1997.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於女性</h4>
<p class="ref1">．P. Leslie, <em>The Imperial Harem: Women and Sovereignty in the Ottoman Empire</em>, Oxford Univ. Press, 1993.</p>
<p class="ref1">．L. Thys-Şenocak, <em>Ottoman Women Builders: The Architectural Patronage of Hadice Turhan Sultan</em>, Ashgate Pub. Co., 2006.</p>
<p class="ref1">．M. C. Zilfi ed., <em>Women in the Ottoman Empire: Middle Eastern Women in the Early Modern Era</em>, Brill, 1997.</p>
<p class="ref1">．C. K. Neumann &amp; S. Faroqhi eds., <em>Ottoman Costumes: From Textile to Identity</em>, Eren, 2004.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>關於近代鄂圖曼帝國及其遺產</h4>
<p class="ref1">．秋葉淳．橋本伸也編『近代．イスラームの教育社会史─オスマン帝国からの展望』（叢書．比較教育社会史）昭和堂 2014</p>
<p class="ref1">．新井政美『トルコ近現代史』みすず書房 2001</p>
<p class="ref1">．新井政美『オスマン帝国はなぜ崩壊したのか』青土社 2009</p>
<p class="ref1">．佐々木紳『オスマン憲政への道』東京大学出版会 2014</p>
<p class="ref1">．藤波伸嘉『オスマン帝国と立憲政─青年トルコ革命における政治、宗教、共同体』名古屋大学出版会 2011</p>
<p class="ref1">．R. Kasaba ed., <em>Turkey in the Modern World</em> (The Cambridge History of Turkey, Vol. 4), Cambridge Univ. Press, 2008.</p>
<p class="ref1">．M. Ş. Hanioğlu, <em>A Brief History of the Late Ottoman Empire</em>, Princeton Univ. Press, 2008.</p>
<p class="ref1">．S. J. Shaw, <em>Between Old and New: The Ottoman Empire under Sultan Selim III, 1789-1807</em>, Harvard Univ. Press, 1971.</p>
<p class="ref1">．D. Quataert, <em>Ottoman Manufacturing in the Age of the Industrial Revolution</em>, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1993.</p>
<p class="ref1">．L. C. Brown ed., <em>Imperial Legacy: The Ottoman Imprint on the Balkans and the Middle East</em>, Columbia Univ. Press, 1996.</p>
<p><br/></p>
<p class="noindent">※以下為本文中引文之主要資料※</p>
<h4 style="margin-top:0.75em;" class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>第1章</h4>
<p class="ref1">．イブン．バットゥータ『大旅行記3』家島彦一譯注 平凡社東洋文庫 1998</p>
<p class="ref1">．Aşık Paşazâde, <em>Omanoğulari ‘nin Tarihi</em>, K.Yavuz &amp; M.A.Y. Saraç haz., Istanbul, 2003.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>第2章</h4>
<p class="ref1">．H. Înalcik haz., <em>Hicrî 835 Tarihli Sûret-i Defter-i Sancak-i Arvanid</em>, Türk Tarih Kurumu, 1954.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>第4章</h4>
<p class="ref1">．O. G. de Busbecq, <em>The Turkish Letters of Ogier Ghiselin de Busbecq</em>, E. S. Forster tr., Louisiana State Univ. Press, 2005 (reprint).</p>
<p class="ref1">．Hayretî, <em>Dîvan</em>, M. Çavuşoğlu &amp; M. A. Tanyeri haz., İstanbul Üniv. Edebiyat Fakültesi Yayınları, 1981.</p>
<p class="ref1">．M. Çavuşoğlu, “16. Yüzyılda Yaşamış Bir Kadın Şair, Nisâyî,” <em>Tarih Enstitüsü Dergisi</em> No. 9, 1978.</p>
<p class="ref1">．A. A. Şentürk, <em>Osmanlı Şiiri Antolojisi</em>, Yapı Kredi Yayınları, 1999.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Ş. Turan, “Şehzade Bayezid’in, Babası Kanuni Sultan Süleyman’a Gönderdiği Mektuplar,” <em>Tarih Vesikaları</em>, No. 1, 1955.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>第5章</h4>
<p class="ref1">．Y. Yücel, <em>Osmanlı Devlet Teşkilâtına dair Kaynaklar</em>, Türk Tarih Kurumu, 1988.</p>
<p class="ref1">．<em>Tarih-i Selânikî</em>. M. İpşirli (haz.), Türk Tarih Kurumu, 1989.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Şentürk, <em>ibid</em>. </p>
<p class="ref1">．清水保尚「16世紀待つオスマン朝におけるムカーターの監理．運営に関する一考察」『アジア．アフリカ言語文化研究』58号、1999</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>第6章</h4>
<p class="ref1">．<em>Evliyâ Çelebi Seyahatnâmesi: V. Kitap</em>, Y. Dağlı, S. A. Kahraman ve İ. Sezgin (haz.), Yapı Kredi Yayınları, 2001.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Başbakanlık Osmanlı Arşivi, Tapu Tahrir Defterleri no. 1040.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, <em>The Turkish Embassy Letters</em>, Virago, 1994 (reprint).</p>
<p class="ref1">．Ö. L. Barkan &amp; E. H. Ayverdi (haz.), <em>İstanbul Vakıfları Tahrîr Defteri : 953 (1546) Târîhli</em>, İstanbul Fetih Cemiyeti, 1970.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Abdülkadir Karahan (haz.), <em>Nef’î Divanı</em>, Ankara, 1986 (reprint).</p>
<p class="ref1">．Şentürk, <em>ibid</em>.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Peçevi İbrahim Efendi, <em>Tarîh-i Peçevî</em>, Enderun Kitabevi, 1980.</p>
<p class="ref1">．M.Şeker, <em>Gelibolulu Mustafa ‘Alî ve Mevâ</em><em>ʻ</em><em>idü’n-nefáis Fî-kavâ</em><em>ʻ</em><em>idi’l-Mecâlis</em>. Türk Tarih Kurumu, 1997.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>第7章</h4>
<p class="ref1">．A. F. Bilkan, <em>Nābi Divanı</em> II. Milli Eğitim Bakanlığı, 1997.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Abdülbâki Gölpınarlı (haz), <em>Nedim Divanı</em> İnkılâp Kitabevi, 2004.</p>
<h4 class="sigil_not_in_toc"><span class="bc">◎</span>第8章</h4>
<p class="ref1">．Vraça’lı Sofroni, <em>Osmanlı’da Bir Papaz: Günahkâr Sofroni’nin Çileli Hayat Hikâyesi 1739-1813</em>, Kitap<em> </em>Yayınevi, 2003.</p>
</body>
</html>