<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops">
<head>
<title></title>
<link href="../Styles/main.css" type="text/css" rel="stylesheet"/>
</head>
<body>
<h2 class="title">參考文獻</h2>
<p><br/></p>
<p>關於文獻，筆者將撰寫本書時參考的文獻書籍中，列舉出重要度較高，或是在日本較容易查找的資料如下。</p>
<p class="intitle">檔案館史料</p>
<p>庫斯科地方檔案館、印地亞斯總檔案館、利馬大主教檔案館、西班牙歷史檔案館等等所藏文書。</p>
<p class="intitle">與本書主題整體相關的基本文獻</p>
<p class="ref1">．J. H. エリオット／藤田一成訳『スペイン帝国の興亡 1469-1716』岩波書店、1999年</p>
<p class="ref1">．樺山絋一ほか編『遭遇と発見—異文化への視野』（岩波講座世界歴史12）岩波書店、1999年</p>
<p class="ref1">．関哲行ほか『大航海の時代—スペインと新大陸』同文館出版、1998年</p>
<p class="ref1">．高橋均．網野徹哉『ラテンアメリカ文明の興亡』（世界の歴史18）中央公論社、1997年</p>
<p class="ref1">．蓮實重彦．山内昌之編『地中海—終末論の誘惑』東京大学出版会、1996年</p>
<p class="ref1">．ヒュー．トーマス／岡部広治ほか訳『黄金の川─スペイン帝国の興隆』大月書店、2006年</p>
<p class="ref1">．増田義郎『インディオ文明の興亡』（世界の歴史７）講談社、1977年</p>
<p class="ref1">．増田義郎．山田睦男編『ラテン．アメリカ史１ メキシコ．中央あめりか．カリブ海』（新版世界各国史２５）山川出版社、1999年</p>
<p class="ref1">．増田義郎編『ラテン．アメリカ史２ 南アメリカ』（新版世界各国史２６）山川出版社、2000年</p>
<p class="ref1">．山内昌之．村田雄二郎．増田一夫編『帝国とは何か』岩波書店、1997年</p>
<p class="ref1">．山本有造編『帝国の研究—原理．類型．関係』名古屋大学出版会、2003年</p>
<p class="ref1">．歴史学研究会編『帝国への新たな視座─歴史研究の地平から』青木書店、2005年</p>
<p class="ref1">．Bakewell, Peter, <em>A history of Latin America: empires and sequels 1450-1930.</em> Oxford: Blackwell, 1997</p>
<p class="ref1">．Flores Galindo, Alberto, <em>Buscando un inca: identidad y utopia en los Andes.</em> Lima: Editorial Horizonte, 1944[1986].</p>
<p class="ref1">．Pease G. Y., Franklin, Javier Flores Espinoza, and Rafael Varón Gabai. <em>El homber y los Andes: homenaje a Franklin Pease G. Y.</em> Lima: Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú, Fondo Editorial, 2002.</p>
<p class="intitle">第一章／第二章	關於印加歷史的文獻</p>
<p class="ref1">．インカ．ガルシラーソ．デ．ラ．ベーガ／牛島信明訳『インカ皇統記』（全４巻）岩波書店、2006年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．熊井茂行「インカ王権と国家」『王権と儀礼』（岩波講座：天皇と王権を考える５）岩波書店、2002年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．シエサ．デ．レオン／増田義郎訳『インカ帝国史』岩波文庫、2006年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．シエサ．デ．レオン／増田義郎訳『インカ帝国地誌』岩波文庫、2007年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．関雄二『アンデスの考古学』（世界の考古学１）同成社、1997年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．関雄二ほか『岩波アメリカ大陸古代文明事典』岩波書店、2005年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．関雄二．染田秀藤編『他者の帝国—インカはいかにして「帝国」になったか』世界思想社、2008年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．染田秀藤『インカ帝国の虚像と実像』講談社、1998年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．染田秀藤．友枝啓泰『アンデスの記録者ワマン．ポマ—インディオが描いた《真実》』平凡社、1992年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．フランクリン．ピース、増田義郎『図説インカ帝国』小学館、1988年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．フランシスコ．デ．ヘレスほか／増田義郎訳『インカ帝国遠征記』中公文庫、2003年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．ペドロ．ピサロほか／増田義郎ほか訳『ペルー王国史』（大航海時代叢書第２期 １６）岩波書店、1984年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．まりあ．ロストウォロフスキ／増田義郎訳『インカ国家の形成と崩壊』東洋書林、2003年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．増田義郎『アステカとインカ—黄金帝国の滅亡』小学館、2002年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．網野徹哉「アメリカ古代帝国の生成—インカをめぐる諸問題」『帝国と支配—古代の遺産』（岩波講座世界歴史５）岩波書店、1998年。</p>
<p class="ref1">．Alcock, Susan E., and D’Altroy, Terence N., <em>Empires: perspectives from archaeology and history.</em> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2001.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Bauer, Brian S., <em>The development of the Inca state.</em> Austin: University of Texas Press, 1992.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Bauer, Brian S., <em>Ancient Cuzco.</em> Austin: University of Texas Press, 2004.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Bauer, Brian S., and Dearborn, David S.P., <em>Astronomy and empire in the ancient Andes: the cultural origins of Inca sky watching.</em> Austin: University of Texas Press, 1955.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Betanzos, Juan de, <em>Narrative of the Incas(translated and edited by Roland Hamilton and Dana Buchanan from the Palma de Mallorca manuscript)</em>. Austin: University of Texas Press, 1996.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Burger, Richard L., and Salazar, Lucy C., <em>Machu Picchu: unveiling the mystery of the Incas.</em> New Haven: Yale University Press, 2004.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Cobo, Bernabé, <em>Historia del Nuevo Mundo.</em> Vols.91-92. Madrid: BAE, 1956.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Cummins, Thomas B. F., <em>Toasts with the Inca: Andean abstraction and colonial images on quero vessels.</em> Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 2002.</p>
<p class="ref1">．D’Altroy, Terence N., <em>Provincial power in the Inka empire</em>. Washington, D. C.: Smithsonian Institution Press, 1992.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Espinoza Soriano, Waldemar, <em>La destrucción del Imperio de los incas</em>. Lima: Amaru Editores, 1990.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Grosboll, Sue, “...And he said in the time of the Ynga, they paid tribute and served the Ynga.” In <em>Provincial Inca: archaeological and ethnohistorical assessment of the impact of the Inca state</em>, edited by Michael A. Malpass. Iowa City: University of Iowa Press, 1993.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Jiménez de la Espada, Marcos, <em>Relacions Geográficas de Indias: Perú.</em> 3 vols. Madrid: BAE, 1965.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Murra, John V., <em>Formaciones económica y políticas del munro andino. </em>Lima: Instituto de Estudios Peruanos, 1975.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Murra, John V., <em>The economic organization of the Inka State.</em> Greenwich: JAI Press, 1980.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Murra, John V., “‘Nos haven mucha ventaja’: the early European perception of Andean achievement.” In <em>Transatlantic encounters: Europeans and Andeans in the sixteenth century</em>, edited by Kenneth J. Andries and Rowena Adorno. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Murra, John V., <em>El mundo andino: población, medio ambiente y economía. </em>Lima: Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú, Instituto de Estudios Peruanos, 2002.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Oberem, Udo, and Hartmann, Roswith, “Indios cañaris de la sierra sur del Ecuador en el Cuzco del siglo XVI.” <em>Revista de la Universidad Complutense</em> 28(117)(1979): 373-390.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Ogburn, Dennis E., “Power in stone: the long-distance movement of building blocks int the Inca empire.” <em>Ethnohistory</em> 51(2004): 101-135.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Pärssinen, Martti, <em>Tawantinsuyu: the Inca state and its political organization</em>. Helsinki: Societas Historica Finladiae, 1992.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Pease G. Y., Franklin, <em>Perú, hombre e historia: tomo II, entre el siglo XVI y el XVIII.</em> Lima: Edubanco, 1992.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Ramirez, Susan E., <em>The world upside down: cross cultural contact and conflict in sixteenth-century Peru</em>. Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1996.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Rowe, John H., “Machu Picchu: a la luz de documentos del siglo XVI.” Histórica 14(1) (1990): 139-154.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Salomon, Frank, “‘The beautiful grandparents’: Andean ancestor shrines and mortuary ritual as seen through colonial records.” In <em>Tombs for the living: Andean mortuary practices</em>, edited by Tom D. Dillehay. Washington, D. C.: Dumbarton Oaks Research Library and Collections, 1995.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Urton, Gary, <em>The history of myth: Pacariqtambo and the origin of the Inkas.</em> Austin: University of Texas Press, 1990.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Villanueva Urteaga, Horacio, “Documentos sobre Yucay en el siglo XVI.” <em>Revista del Archivo Histórico del Cuzco </em>No.13 (1970): 1-148.</p>
<p class="intitle">第三章／第四章	關於西班牙的中世紀、近代歷史的文獻</p>
<p class="ref1">．アントニオ．ドミンゲス．オルティス／立石博高訳『スペイン—三千年の歴史』昭和堂、2006年</p>
<p class="ref1">．エリー．ケドゥリーほか／関哲行ほか訳『スペインのユダヤ人—1492年の追放とその後』平凡社、1995年</p>
<p class="ref1">．金七紀男『ボルトガル史（増補版）』彩流版、2003年</p>
<p class="ref1">．カルロ．ギンズブルグ／竹山博英訳『闇の歴史—サバトの解説』せりか書房、1992年</p>
<p class="ref1">．近藤仁之『スペイン．ユダヤ民族史─寛容から不寛容へいたる道』刀水書房、2004年</p>
<p class="ref1">．関哲行『スペインのユダヤ人』（世界史リブレット59）山川出版社、2003年</p>
<p class="ref1">．立石博高ほか『スペインの歴史』昭和堂、1998年</p>
<p class="ref1">．J．ビセンス．ビーベス／小林一宏訳『スペイン─歴史的省察』岩波書店、1975年</p>
<p class="ref1">．藤田一成『皇帝カルロスの悲劇—ハプスブルク帝国の継承』平凡社、1999年</p>
<p class="ref1">．増田義郎『コロンブス』岩波新書、1979年</p>
<p class="ref1">．マリア．ロサ．メノカル／足立孝訳『寛容の文化─ムスリム ユダヤ人 キリスト教徒の中世スペイン』名古屋大学出版会、2005年</p>
<p class="ref1">．宮崎和夫「グラナダ王国の港町マラガとジェノヴァ商人」歴史研究会編『港町に生きる』（シリーズ港町の世界史3）青木書店、2006年</p>
<p class="ref1">．宮崎和夫「レコンキスタ終結後のグラナダ王国における不寛容—その起源と生成」深沢克己．高山博編『信仰と他者—寛容と不寛容のヨーロッパ宗教社会史』東京大学出版会、2006年</p>
<p class="ref1">．宮前安子「16世紀スペインの異端審問の展開—モリスコ問題とかスティリア異端審問」橋口倫介編『西洋中世のキリスト教と社会』刀水書房、1983年</p>
<p class="ref1">．宮前安子「16世紀におけるスペイン異端審問制度の地方的展開をめぐって─最近の研究動向を中心に」『スペイン史研究』第2号、1984年</p>
<p class="ref1">．Bear, Y., <em>A history of the Jews in Christian Spain</em>. 2 vols. Philadelphia: Jewish Publication Society, 1966.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Blackmore, Josiah, and Hutchison, Gregory S., eds. <em>Queer Iberia: sexualities, cultures, and crossings from the Middle Ages to the Renaissance.</em> Durham: Duke University Press, 1999.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Burns, Robert I., S. J., <em>Muslims, Christians, and Jews in the crusader kingdom of Valencia: societies in symbiosis.</em> New York: Cambridge University Press, 1984.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Burns, Robert I., S. J. ed. <em>Las Siete Partidas.</em> 5 vols. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2000.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Burns, Robert I., S. J., “Jews and Moors in the Siete Partidas of Alfonso X the Learned: a background perspective.” In <em>Medieval Spain: culture, conflict and coexistence</em>, edited by Roger Collins and Anthony Goodman, 41-62: Palgrave MaCmillan,2002.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Christian, William A., Jr. <em>Apparitions in late medieval and Renaissance Spain</em>. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1981.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Echevarria, Ana, <em>The fortress of faith: the attitude towards Muslims in fifteenth century Spain</em>. Leiden: Brill, 1999.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Giles, Mary E., ed. <em>Women in the Inquisition: Spain and the New World</em>. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1998.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Graizbord, David L., <em>Souls in dispute: converso identities in Iberia and the Jewish Diaspora, 1580-1700.</em> Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 2003.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Kagan, Richard L., and Dyer, Abigail, <em>Inquisitorial inquiries: brief lives of secret Jews and other heretics</em>. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 2004.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Kamen, Henry, <em>Spain, 1469-1714: a society of conflict</em>. London: Longman,1991.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Kamen, Henry, <em>The Spanish Inquisition: a historical revision.</em> New Haven: Yale University Press, 1998.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Kamen, Henry, <em>Empire: how Spain became a world power, 1492-1763</em>. New York: Harper Collins Publishers Inc., 2003.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Lehfeldt, Elizabeth A., “Ruling sexuality: the political legitimacy of Isabel of Castile”, Renaissance Quarterly 53(2000): 31-56.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Lists, Peggy K., <em>Isabel the Queen: life and times.</em> New York: Oxford University Press, 1992.</p>
<p class="ref1">．MacKay, Angus, <em>Spain in the Middle Ages: from frontier to empire, 1000-1500</em>. London: Macmillan Press, 1983.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Miller, Louise, Women, Jews and Muslims in the texts of reconquest Castile. Ann Arbor: University of Michigan Press, 1996.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Nader, Helen, <em>The Mendoza family in the Spanish Renaissance, 1350-1550</em>. New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 1979.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Netanyahu, Benzion, <em>The origins of the Inquisition in fifteenth century Spain</em>. New York: Randam House,1995.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Perry, Mary Elizabeth, <em>Gender and disorder in early modern Seville. </em>Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1990.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Perry, Mary Elizabeth, <em>The handless maiden: moriscos and the politics of religion in early Modern Spain</em>. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2005.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Phillips, William D., Jr. <em>Enrique IV and the crisis of fifteenth-century Castile, 1425-1480</em>, Cambridge: The Medieval Academy of America, 1978.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Ruiz, Teofilo F., <em>Spanish society, 1400-1600</em>. Harlow: Pearson Education, 2001.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Sicroff, Albert A., <em>Los estatutos de limpieza de sangre: controversias entre los siglos XV y XVII</em>. Madrid: Taurus,1985.</p>
<p class="intitle">第五章</p>
<p class="ref1">．染田秀藤『ラス．カサス伝─新世界征服の審問者』岩波書店、1990年</p>
<p class="ref1">．染田秀藤．友枝啓泰『アンデスの記録者ワマン．ポマーインディオが描いた《真実》』平凡社、1992年</p>
<p class="ref1">．ティトゥ．クシ．ユパンギ／染田秀藤訳『インカの反乱─非征服者の声』岩波書店、1987年</p>
<p class="ref1">．網野徹哉「アンデス先住民とスペイン人の自然観」赤澤威ほか編『アメリカ大陸の自然誌』第３巻、岩波書店、1993年</p>
<p class="ref1">．網野徹哉「植民地体制とインディオ社会─アンデス植民地しゃかいの一断面」歴史学研究会編『近代世界への道─変容と摩擦』（講座世界史2）東京大学出版会、1995年</p>
<p class="ref1">．網野徹哉「17世紀アンデス社会考─流動する時代」友枝啓泰ほか編『アンデス文化を学ぶ人のために』世界思想社、1997年</p>
<p class="ref1">．Abercrombie, Thomas A., “La perpetuidad traducida: del “debate” al Taqui Onqoy y una rebelión comunera peruana.” In <em>Incas e indios cristianos: elites indigenas e identidades cristinans en los Andes coloniales</em>, edited by Jean-Jaques Decoster. Cuzco: Centro Bartolomé de las Casas, 2002.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Cook, Noble David, <em>Demographic collapse: Indian Peru, 1520-1620.</em> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1981.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Guillén Guillén, Edmundo, <em>Versión inca de la conquista.</em> Lima: Milla Batres, 1974.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Hemming, John, <em>The conquest of the Incas.</em> New York, 1970.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Lamana, Gonzalo, “Definir y dominar: los lugares grises en el Cuzco hacia 1540.” <em>Colonial Latin American Review</em> 10(1) (2001): 25-48.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Lockhart, James, <em>Spanish Peru, 1532-1560: a colonial society.</em> Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1968.</p>
<p class="ref1">．MacCormack, Sabine, <em>On the wings of time: Rome, the Incas, Spain, and Peru.</em> Princeton: Princeton University Press, 2007.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Mean García, Mª del Carmen, <em>Un linaje de conversos en tierras americanas.</em> Salamanca: Imprenta KADMOS, 2004.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Spalding, Karen, <em>Huarochirí: An Andean society under Inca and Spanish rule.</em> Stanford: Stanford University Press, 1984.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Stern, Steve J., <em>Peru’s Indian peoples and the challenge of Spanish conquest: Huamanga to 1640.</em> Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1982.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Varón Gabai, Rafael, <em>Francisco Pizarro and his brothers: the illusion of power in sixteenth-century Peru.</em> Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1997.</p>
<p class="intitle">第六章</p>
<p class="ref1">．アメリコ．カストロ／本田誠二訳『セルバンテスとスペイン生粋主義─スペイン史のなかのドン．キホーテ』法政大学出版局、2006年</p>
<p class="ref1">．荒野泰典ほか『江戸幕府と東アジア』（日本の時代史14）吉川弘文館、2003年</p>
<p class="ref1">．池端雪浦編『東南アジア史2』（新版世界各国史6）山川出版社、1999年</p>
<p class="ref1">．セルジュ．グリュジンスキ／竹下和亮訳「カトリック王国─接続された歴史と世界」『思想』第937号、2002年</p>
<p class="ref1">．平山篤子「パードレ．ホセ．デ．アコスタと『対明征服戦争についての見解』」『サピエんチア』12、1978年</p>
<p class="ref1">．藤田一成『皇帝カルロスの悲劇─ハプスブルク帝国の継承』平凡社、1999年</p>
<p class="ref1">．ホセ．デ．アコスタ／増田義郎訳『新大陸自然文化史』上．下（大航海時代叢書）岩波書店、1966年</p>
<p class="ref1">．増田義郎「ポルトガルとアジア」『国際関係紀要（亜細亜大学国際関係学会）』8-2, 9-1.2、1999年</p>
<p class="ref1">．Altman, Ida, <em>Emigrants and society: Extremadura and Spanish America in the sixteenth century.</em> Berkeley and Oxford: University of California Press, 1989.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Altman, Ida, and Horn, James, eds. <em>“To make America”: European emigration in the early modern period.</em> Berkeley: University of California Press, 1991.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Bakewell, Peter, J., <em>Miners of the red mountain: Indian labor in Potosí, 1545-1650.</em> Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 1985.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Otte, Enrique, ed. <em>Cartas privadas de emigrantes a Indias, 1540-1616</em>. México: Fondo de Cultura Económica, 1993.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Pérez-Mallaína, Pablo E., <em>Spain’s men of the sea: daily life on the Indies fleets in the sixteenth century</em>. Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1998.</p>
<p class="intitle">第七章</p>
<p class="ref1">．バーナード．ベイリン／和田光弘ほか訳『アトランティック．ヒストリー』名古屋大学出版会、2007年</p>
<p class="ref1">．深沢克己『商人と更紗—近世フランス＝レヴァント貿易史研究』東京大学出版会、2007年</p>
<p class="ref1">．Domínguez Ortiz, Antonio, <em>Los Judeoconversos en España y América</em>, Madrid, 1971.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Duviols, Pierre, <em>Cultura andina y represión: procesos y visitas de idolatrías y hechicerías. Cajatambo, siglo XVII.</em> Lima: Centro de Estudios Rurales Andinos “Bartolomé de las Casas”, 1986.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Guibovich Pérez, Pedro, “La cultura libresca de un converso procesado por la inquisición de Lima.”<em> Historia y Cultura </em>20(1990): 133-160, 425-457.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Israel, Jonathan I., <em>Race, class, and politics in colonial Mexico, 1610-1670.</em> Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1975.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Israel, Jonathan I., <em>Diasporas within a diaspora: Jews, crypto-Jews and the world maritime empires(1540-1740)</em>. Leiden: Brill, 2002.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Mills, Kenneth,<em> Idolatry and its enemies: colonial Andean religion and extirpation, 1640-1750.</em> Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1997.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Phelan, John Leddy, <em>The millenial kingdom of the Franciscans in the New World 2d.</em> Berkeley: University of California Press, 1970.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Silverblatt, Irene, <em>Modern Inquisitions: Peru and the colonial origins of the civilized world.</em> Durham &amp; London: Duke University Press, 2004.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Studnicki-Gizbert, Daviken, <em>A nation upon the ocean sea: Portugal’s Atlantic diaspora and the crisis of the Spanish Empire, 1492-1640.</em> New York: Oxford University Press, 2007.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Taylor, Gerald, <em>Ritos y tradiciones de Huarochirí: manuscrito quechua de comienzos del siglo XVII.</em> Lima: Instituo de Estudios Peruanos, Instituto Francés de Estudios Andinos, 1987.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Toribio Medina, José, <em>Historia del Tribunal de la Inquisición de Lima, 1569-1820</em>, tomo II. Santiago de Chile: Fondo Histórico y Bibliográfico J. T. Medina, 1956.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Wachtel, Nathan, <em>La fe del recuerdo: laberintos marranos.</em> México: Fondo de Cultura Económica, 2007.</p>
<p class="intitle">第八章</p>
<p class="ref1">．アイリーン．シルバープラット／染田秀藤訳『月と太陽と魔女—ジェンダーによるアンデス世界の統合と支配』岩波書店、2001年</p>
<p class="ref1">．フェルナンド．デ．ローハス／杉浦勉訳『ラ．セレスティーナ』（スペイン中世．黄金世紀文学選集4）国書刊行会、1996年</p>
<p class="ref1">．網野徹哉「女たちのインカ」義江彰夫はか編『歴史の文法』東京大学出版会、1997年</p>
<p class="ref1">．Burns, Kathryn, <em>Colonial habits: convents and the spiritual economy of Cuzco, Peru.</em> Durham: Duke University Press, 1999.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Mannarelli, María Emma, <em>Pecados públicos: la ilegitimidad en Lima, siglo XVII. </em>Lima: Ediciones Flora Tristán, 1993.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Osorio, Alejandra B., “El callejón de la soledad: vectors of cultural hybridity in seventeenth-century Lima.” In <em>Spiritual encounters: interactions between Christianity and native religion in colonial America</em>, edited by Nicholas Griffiths and Fernando Cervantes, 198-229. Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1999.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Rostworowski de Diez Canseco, María. <em>Doña Francisca Pizarro: una ilustre mestiza, 1534-1598.</em> Lima: Instituto de Estudios Peruanos, 2005.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Sánchez, Ana, <em>Amancebados, hechiceros y rebeldes; Chancay, siglo XVII.</em> Cusco: Centro Bartolomé de las casas, 1991.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Socolow, Susan Migden, <em>The women of colonial Latin America.</em> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2000.</p>
<p class="ref1">．van Deusen, Nancy E., <em>Between the sacred and the worldly: the institutional and cultural practice of recogimiento in colonial Lima.</em> Stanford: Stanford University Press, 2001.</p>
<p class="intitle">第九章</p>
<p class="ref1">．網野徹哉「植民地期インカ．イメージ生成論再考」『Odysseus（東京大学大学院総合文化研究科地域文化研究専攻紀要）』第7号、2003年</p>
<p class="ref1">．Cahill, David P., “Primus inter pares: la búsqueda del marquesado de Oropesa, camino a la gran rebelión, 1741-1780.” <em>Revista Andina </em>37, 2(2003)</p>
<p class="ref1">．Cahill, David P., “A luminal nobility: the Incas in the middle ground of late colonial Peru.” In <em>New World, first nations: native peoples of Mesoamerica and the Andes under colonial rule</em>, edited by David Cahill and Blanca Tovías. Brighton: Sussex Academic Press, 2006.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Cummins, Thomas, and et als., eds. <em>Los Incas, reyes del Perú, colección arte y tesoros del Perú.</em> Lima: Banco de Crédito, 2005.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Dean, Carolyn, <em>Inka bodies and the body of Christ: Corpus Christi in colonial Cuzco, Peru.</em> Durham: Duke University Press, 1999.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Garrett, David T., <em>Shadows of empire: the Indian nobility of Cusco, 1750-1825.</em> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2005.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Gilbert, Teresa., <em>Iconografía y mitos indígenas en el arte.</em> La Paz: Editorial Gisbert y Cia, 1980.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Lorandi, Ana María, <em>De quimeras rebeliones y utopías: la gesta de inca Pedro Bohorques.</em> Lima: Pontificia Universidad Católica del Perú, 1997.</p>
<p class="intitle">第十章</p>
<p class="ref1">．齋藤晃．岡田裕成『南米キリスト教美術とコロニアリズム』名古屋大学出版会、2007年</p>
<p class="ref1">．真鍋周三『トゥパック．アマルの反乱に関する研究─その社会経済史的背景の考察』神戸商科大学経済研究所、1995年</p>
<p class="ref1">．Brading, David A., <em>The first America: the Spanish monarchy, creole patriots, and the liberal state, 1492-1867.</em> Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 1991.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Fisher, Lillian Estelle, <em>The last Inca revolt, 1780-1783.</em> Norman: University of Oklahoma, 1966.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Flores Galindo, Alberto, <em>Túpac Amaru II-1780; antología.</em> Lima: Retablo de Papel Ediciones, 1976.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Hidalgo Lehuede, Jorge, “Amarus y Cataris: aspecto mesiáníco de la rebelión indígena en 1781 en Cusco, Chayanta, La Paz y Arica ”, <em>Chungará,</em> NO. 10, 1983.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Lewin, Boleslao,<em> La rebelión de Túpac Amaru y los orígenes de la Independencia de Hispanoamérica</em>, (3ª edición). Buenos Aires: S. E. L. A., 1967.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Méndez, Cecilia, “Incas sí, indio no: notes on Peruvian creole nationalism and its contemporary crisis.” <em>Journal of Latin American Studies</em> 28, Feb(1996): 197-225.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Serulnikov, Sergio, <em>Subverting colonial authority: challenges to Spanish rule in eighteenth-century southern Andes.</em> Durham: Duke University Press, 2003.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Staving, Ward, <em>The world of Túpac Amaru: conflict, community and identity in colonial Peru.</em> Lincoln &amp; London: University of Nebraska Press, 1999.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Stern,Steve J., ed. <em>Resistance, rebellion, and consciousness in the Andean peasant world: 18th to 20th centuries</em>, Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1987.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Thomson, Sinclair, <em>We alone will rule: native Andean politics in the age of insurgency.</em> Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 2002.</p>
<p class="ref1">．Walker, Charles F., <em>Smoldering ashes; Cuzco and the creation of Republican Peru, 1780-1840.</em> Durham: duke University Press, 1999.</p>
</body>
</html>